# Market



## Retail Business

The days of real, brick-and-mortar retail stores are over. Sure, it is still more convenient to jump in your car and drive to the local Walmart or Home Depot and pick up the item you want "now", but it is progressively easier to order it on Amazon during your lunch break, or on the train to work.
Everyone among the big retailers is working on the next day delivery, same day delivery, or next hour delivery, if Amazon will have their way with Prime Air.  Sure, there still will be the limited-real-estate Galleria type of products stores, but they will only be driving online sales.

A couple of years ago, I was an Architect for Mobile Innovation Group at Sears/Kmart, so naturally I will take that company as example.

Sears/Kmart stores could be doing things a little better. A short history lesson: many Americans remember Sears as catalog business. Every year you've got your booklet from which you were able to select some goodies for your kitchen and tools for your husband for Christmas and it was great back then. Then came mega stores, people did not have to wait for weeks on delivery. Sears and Kmart had their heyday. Then came Japan, then China and Korea and multitude of companies started to compete on cheaper imports. Then came computers and Walmart bought and used some of it, Sears and Kmart did not do as well. All suddenly the prices got 20% lower in stores like Walmart and Target, customers exodus followed.

Then came Amazon, they sold you a book, then another book, then they sold you a TV and then a movie. They also have bought some computers and used them, in fact they used so many of them that today they are a major provider of server capacity.
Then came Google and the rest of the story will be written in the future, unless traditional companies like Sears and Kmart do something to level the field.
Let's start with the brand. I am sure there are still a lot of people who like brands like Craftsman, or Kenmore, but honestly it is hard to get a Millennial kid to enter the mall thru Sears entrance. It is hard to change image once the name is stained. Sears launched a program named Shop Your Way, it may work, but it does not have a ring to it. Point is that at this point Kmart and Sears could be called "Red and Blue" and they might have better sales.   What is wrong with catalog business? Nothing much, except it has to be created for you, a single person, every moment, and has to be short and precise. People like to have a perception of many choices, but immediately they want to narrow it to a couple of choices. If they cannot, they go somewhere else, continue shopping.
Companies learn about you
So the next question is how do you narrow 10 million products which Sears offers to a handful you want to buy today? Amazon knows it, that is why they kick butt, however they are not sharing. Google will know and that is why they may be the biggest danger for all retailers. Facebook is entering the game, too.
You write something online, Google learns a piece of info about you. You “like“ something and Facebook learns something about you. You search for something and Google learns about you. You click, they know, you skip, they know. You do that many times, over 10 years. They build a profile of you, they know precisely what you are looking for today, they serve you search results, advertisements and products.
What can "Red and Blue" do about it? 
Sell everything under the sky online
Sell everything under the sky online, even at the break even prices, yes - no profit margins. In a sense Sears is trying to do it already with the offering millions of products via 3rd party Marketplace, however the prices are not quite competitive. You need to sell everything because you need to capture most of any search engine product searches. I would go further and have competitors' offering, too.
Easier log in with Social Networks
2) Know your client. By name. Let’s say I searched for something and found result, clicked on it and now I see it on "Red and Blue" mobile website. This is opportunity for the retailer to learn about me. Me! But what happens, I add the item to the cart and Sears is asking me to log in, I might do that later when I am by the computer because I don't remember the password (OK, it will never happen). I go to Kenmore.com, same product, the cart does not know me. Why not allow me to log in with Facebook, Google+ or LinkedIn, I know it sounds counterintuitive as you compete with them, but that is what we do these days, we log in with services that we all have on our phones, no harm done, no information lost.
3) Collect data and use it. So now you allow me to log in with Fb, great. I search Google and because you carry millions of products, sooner then later I end up on your mobile website, you know me by name. I am presented with this product, 4.5 stars (however no profit margin) and two other similar products cheaper and more expensive, both 4.7 stars (and nice profit margin). I click around and eventually choose something. I have done that 50 times before and you get to know me among millions other users that have similar tastes and interests.
4) Communicate. I get my daily doze of emails from Sears, Craftsman, Kenmore and Show Your Way - my intuitive opinion? You don't know me! I get $10 in points for oil change, I am not moved, when is the last time I used any offer? How about "How is your Astro van doing, we haven't seen it in a while and honestly we miss it! Come for oil change, we make it worth it! (offer here) You know we have great Craftsman tools you can pick from while we change your oil."
5) Crowd source information. Engage the user, make it super easy to rate and tell you about the product, yours and your competition. People buy in one place, then come to Amazon to write their product review. We need to ask ourselves why that happens and do better.
6) Make sure you can deliver. As I mentioned Amazon want to air drop your packages using drones and we all have seen on YouTube the Roomba robots turned into their warehouse busboys. Company has to invest in ability to know what your client wants, where they want it, in what quantity and how short the delivery should be to please the customer each time. The company should invest in their own software as using the same package only guarantees that consultants, once they finish with you will go to your competition and offer "improved" version.
Sears and Kmart are currently in process of selling the real estate and investing in the e-commerce, updating their mobile and chain of supply software and winning awards, so there is a real hope to turn the company around.
The summary of this story is that the companies have to learn about their clients and have to use that knowledge wisely to communicate with the client. When I walk in to the store, or enter the website you have to know me, by name and by my interests. You have to connect the dots and heavily invest in machine learning and profiling algorithms.
Virtual Shopping Assistants becomes a Butler
At this point it is somewhat accepted that the store software on your phone will know some of your personal data like the shirt size from you order history, suggest you color matching items and related products. The should know if you are a man or a woman, they should understand what Persona, or user type you are and carefully carter to you. Some people like myself never remember their shirt size, do not remember exact hue of my business suits or ties. It would be simple enough to take a picture of my existing garments and have the CyberButler find me a matching shirt in my size. I like my jeans, to dismay of my wife in loose fit, 33 waist and 32 inseam, I hate tight fit around my thighs and I prefer certain dark-blue-with-white pattern colors better than others so I can wear them as business casual. There is no reason why retailer would not be able to whip out this app within 6 months after reading this paragraph, I know I could. This patter applies to every product category every sold, not just clothing. We will be developing mobile software for decades to go.
Add Convenience with QR and Barcodes
Everyone is carrying the mobile, if you want users to install and use your apps you have to provide extra value. The QR and barcode scanner can display the product info, 3r party reviews, user comments, ratings, ability to add to the cart, especially when bulk and attendance needs to be called and purchase online if the store wants to save money on restocking and prefers to function as a Galleria of products.
Store Map
It is expected that once I search and find an item on my mobile the interactive store map will guide me to find the item. This is somehow earlier said than done as GPS location may be hard to obtain inside cities’ tall buildings, however the WiFi triangulation should work well enough if there are enough hotspots thru-ought the store.
Check-in
The retail store should do it’s upmost to encourage user to check-in upon entry,  the optimal check-in would result in preferential treatment personalized to this customer. the The retailer may use the Foursquare and Google and Facebook Places APIs, but in the end they should provide their own incentives.
Customer Loyalty

- rewarding customer for check-ins with special offers random awards
- recognize value customers and alert store staff
- recognize customer’s likes and dislikes
- strictly adhere to clients privacy settings
  QR and bar-code scanners

- QR codes as infinite real estate
- different QR codes in-store and outside
  QR codes allow a small label to have infinite real estate. The QR code should point to different content in-store and outside. Inside the store you might show your customer a video about the product, product comparisons, customer reviews and ratings. Outside of the store you may show purchase location availability and directions of use depending if user is shopping, or looking for help.
  From the coffee package QR code you can learn the following:
  The product information, for example coffee’s origin, eco-friendliness, fair-trade policies, country and environmental data of where it was grown.
  The product comparison: listing of comparative products, pros and cons of each. Complementary products: for example cups, coffee grinders, table clothes, etc. Other language translations. Ability to add to favorites, raincheck list, TO-DO items, etc. Coupons - the high end retailers do not use discount coupons, a lot of companies has been using coupons to promote customer loyalty companies like Groupon dilute brand loyalty and can be detrimental to retailer coupons should be offered outside the store, once in-store there is no incentive for retailer.

